So, we're here to show you one other common thing that
triggers most of the Alteryx errors which is null values.
So, depending if you're using 10.6,
which is the version of Alteryx we recommend or if you're using 11,
it will impact different tools differently.
So, I'm not going to walk through so many specific examples so
much as how to identify if you have them or not.
So, the easiest way to do that,
as you can see I call this Bad Diamond Data because I made it to have some null values,
is to add a field summary tool.
So, anytime you're running into errors,
beyond just adding a browse tool,
sometimes adding a field summary tool right
before some amount of data is going into a tool,
you can attach a field summary tool.
Make sure you select all the fields you can,
and then oops, I need to add in all of the browsers,
and then we're going to run that workflow.
So, in this view,
you can see whenever there's
a little bit of red that shows you that there's something missing.
Now, that can trigger a whole bunch of errors for you with really crazy names down here.
So, if you look in this one,
you can see it as well.
It'll show you the percentage missing,
so let's just add actually a browse tool to the data and
see if we can just see one do so we know that it looks like.
So, if we pull this up a bit, scroll down.
So anytime you see this null here, this bracketed null,
those are missing values,
and that will mess up many of the tools especially if you are using 11.
So, ways to deal with that,
you can use the filter tool which will allow you to pick a field.
So, if we look back here,
we know that carat is a null value for row 15 as well as 19,
19 has them all.
So, we can pick a field,
say something like carat,
and we can actually say, is not null.
So that means everything in the true when we run this,
now 15, it isn't there anymore.
If we look in the faults,
we can see those two records that did contain nulls filtered out.
That's one of the ways you can deal with it.
Another way which we'll cover more in depth when you should do it is impute it,
which again this will be covered later in the course.
But basically, this says,
anytime that you see a null value,
you can replace with the average median mode or you can even set a number,
but this was another way to basically
replace anytime that you see a null with a specific value.
The last way that I would recommend dealing with nulls is
the data cleansing tool which will replace your nulls with
either blanks for string fields and zeros for numeric fields.
This will depend on the data types you have coming into the tool.
So, remember, right now,
since we haven't put in a select tool,
if you did this,
you would get blanks and not zeros for these null values that should be number.
So, make sure you use your select tool prior to using
the data cleansing tool or actually even using the impute tool. Thank you.